Last time we looked at the zip code nonconforming era where the zip code was longer than supposed to
be and we fished out another two rows.
And today we're faced different era which is telling us that there is a problem converting date and
or time from a character string.
And I feel that you already know this is going and what function we're going to use you can guess the
name of the function.
And you'll see in the second so we only have one date in our data it's the birthday and obviously the
issues in that column.
So how about we try and figure out which column exactly that is in.
And as we agreed we're going to keep building on these queries because that way we can know exactly
how many rows are affected specifically just by that filter after these filters are applied.
So we will not double count our affected rows.
So here what we need to do we want select from where is the metric.
So we need to exactly this.
We need to copy these these conditions.
So I'll just copy this one here and then I'll explain again.
So and then.
And so let me let's just get this clear just in case there's some some confusion here.
So Salek star from this table where is Gnumeric balance is not equal to 1 when you run this it returns
you the bad rows.
The rows that are not what you want then when you go back into your actual script you want the opposite
you want the good rows so you change not equal to equal.
And then we say 10 rows here we should say excluded.
OK so that means we won.
Do you want the good ones then here when we move on to the next era.
We're saying select from table where is the metric is equal to one meaning we only want to Goodrich's
just like here.
And then after that we want to see out of the remaining good rows the ones that we selected here.
How many are bad rows in terms of zipcode.
So we're zipcode the length of the card is greater than 7.
And once we do that we get two rows.
We write two rows over here.
But in the actual filter in the proc we do the opposite because we don't want the bedrolls we want the
good rows.
So instead sort of greater we do less than or equal to 7 and then that way we've taken the good roles
in terms of balance a good roles in terms of zipcode and now we're moving on to the date the birth date
.
So here select star from fake names where isn't Mary balances equal to one meaning it's a good call
Roe in terms of balance and length of zip code is less or equal to seven it's a good Roe in terms of
zipcode.
So only keep leaving the zip code.
The good rose just like we did here and now we go going to check for the bad rolls in terms of birthday
.
So here's a birthday.
And we want to apply a function that will allow us to find out whether it is in the right format or
not.
And lucky in ask you all to see how easy these things are in Asgill It's just amazing.
In Ezekiel there's a function for that which is called is birthday.
No it's called is date is date and works the same way it is numeric.
So we want to check when it is not a date so not equal to 1.
And let's run that execute and then we go we have one person whose birthday is actually just a letter
.
And and obviously that is not a correct date.
So what we want to do is we want to exclude this record from our insert and actually by the way see
you can see here that there is one after we've applied the rest of the filter's Let's have a look and
see what would have happened if we applied the filters we didn't apply the rest of filters so let's
say select star from here where it's not a birth right.
So out of all the records good and bad where it's not a proper date execute still one.
OK good.
So no overlap there.
Just checking.
Just for fun.
So here we're going to say and we're going to copy this filter is date.
We're going to say equal to one because we want the good rose and now we know that is one row was affected
.
All right.
And now we can run this whole thing with kids.
Oh OK.
Wow.
We've imported our Rose.
Great.
So copy there their number of rows here and there we go so now we have done the import the data is in
the table.
You can have a look at it.
It's here.
There it is.
And also we know exactly how many rows were excluded 13 rows and you have to check.
This is your main quality assurance check this important you have to add up 10 plus to 12 plus 113 plus
one hundred ninety nine thousand nine hundred eighty seven is 200000 and you can even put a note here
.
I do this as well.
So this plus 10 plus two plus one equals.
And then what you do is here you add.
You take this you copy it.
Actually I like to put at the top and you say count.
Right.
So that's your 200000 equals 200000.
And so you just say verified which is good which means it adds up and you haven't lost anything on the
way you know you have a double cut of anything if filters or whatever that is as important check for
keyway and also keeps you alert.
Make sure that you remember what you're doing and you don't basically lose track of things.
So we've done that.
The other thing that we normally do is either check.
We've already talked about this select count from your work table.
So just make sure that you haven't by accident double inserted You know you if you want to insert again
and you highlight everything.
And if we get the truncated bit it will end up of duplicate records just to make sure that this number
is the same as this number we're here.
All right so that was us fixing up these errors.
This as you can see we learned how to deal with numeric errors than nonconforming formats and data errors
.
And further in this section I will show you a few more additional quality assurance checks that will
be very handy to pick out some more anomalies that might be present or not.
And until next time happy analyzing